README.md, before:

# revealgo

**revealgo** is a small web application for giving Markdown-driven presentations implemented in **Go**! The `revealgo` command starts a local web server to serve the your markdown presentation file with `reveal.js`. The presentation can be viewed in a web browser. The reveal.js library offers comprehensive presenting features such as slide transitions, speaker notes and more.

## Install

To install, use `go get`:

```
$ go get github.com/yusukebe/revealgo/cmd/revealgo
```

## Usage

The usage:

```
$ revealgo [options] MARKDOWN.md
```

Then access the local web server such as `http://localhost:3000` with Chrome, Firefox, or Safari.

Available options:

```
-p, --port            tcp port number of this server. default is 3000.
--theme               slide theme or original css file name. default themes:
                      beige, black, blood, league, moon, night, serif, simple, sky, solarized, and white
--transition          transition effect for slides: default, cube, page, concave, zoom, linear, fade, none
```

### Screenshots

Run `revealgo` command:

![Command Line](https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/10682/12741641/b5afb504-c9c1-11e5-94d6-c364912cfcc2.png)

Open the server address with your web browser:

![Slides](https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/10682/12741672/f9cda548-c9c1-11e5-9c21-fcaf1af3cdf4.png)

### Sample Makrdown

```markdown
## This is an H2 Title

Description...

The horizontal slide separator characters are '---'

---

# This is second title

The vertical slide separator characters are '___'

___

## This is a third title

---

## This is a forth title
<!-- .slide: data-background="#f70000" data-transition="page" -->

You can add slide attributes like above.
```

### Customize Theme

While `revealgo` is running, open another terminal and get the theme file `black.css`:

```
$ curl http://localhost:3000/revealjs/css/theme/black.css > original.css
```

Edit `original.css`, And then run `revealgo` with `--theme` option:

```
$ revealgo --theme original.css slide.md
```

### Customize Slide Configurations

Get the default slide HTML file:

```
$ curl http://localhost:3000/ > slide.html
```

Edit `slide.html`, and then open `http://localhost:3000/slide.html` with your browser. A slide with the modified configurations will come up.

## See Also

* reveal.js <https://github.com/hakimel/reveal.js/>
* App::revealup <https://github.com/yusukebe/App-revealup>

## Author

Yusuke Wada <http://github.com/yusukebe>

Commit message:

Update documentation with multiplex usage

README.md, after:

# revealgo

**revealgo** is a small web application for giving Markdown-driven presentations implemented in **Go**! The `revealgo` command starts a local web server to serve the your markdown presentation file with `reveal.js`. The presentation can be viewed in a web browser. The reveal.js library offers comprehensive presenting features such as slide transitions, speaker notes and more.

## Install

To install, use `go get`:

```
$ go get github.com/yusukebe/revealgo/cmd/revealgo
```

## Usage

The usage:

```
$ revealgo [options] MARKDOWN.md
```

Then access the local web server such as `http://localhost:3000` with Chrome, Firefox, or Safari.

Available options:

```text
-p, --port            tcp port number of this server. default is 3000.
--theme               slide theme or original css file name. default themes:
                      beige, black, blood, league, moon, night, serif, simple, sky, solarized, and white
--transition          transition effect for slides: default, cube, page, concave, zoom, linear, fade, none
--multiplex           enable slide multiplexi
```

### Screenshots

Run `revealgo` command:

![Command Line](https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/10682/12741641/b5afb504-c9c1-11e5-94d6-c364912cfcc2.png)

Open the server address with your web browser:

![Slides](https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/10682/12741672/f9cda548-c9c1-11e5-9c21-fcaf1af3cdf4.png)

### Sample Makrdown

```markdown
## This is an H2 Title

Description...

The horizontal slide separator characters are '---'

---

# This is second title

The vertical slide separator characters are '___'

___

## This is a third title

---

## This is a forth title
<!-- .slide: data-background="#f70000" data-transition="page" -->

You can add slide attributes like above.
```

### Customize Theme

While `revealgo` is running, open another terminal and get the theme file `black.css`:

```
$ curl http://localhost:3000/revealjs/css/theme/black.css > original.css
```

Edit `original.css`, And then run `revealgo` with `--theme` option:

```
$ revealgo --theme original.css slide.md
```

### Customize Slide Configurations

Get the default slide HTML file:

```
$ curl http://localhost:3000/ > slide.html
```

Edit `slide.html`, and then open `http://localhost:3000/slide.html` with your browser. A slide with the modified configurations will come up.

### Using slide multiplex

> The multiplex plugin allows your audience to follow the slides of the
> presentation you are controlling on their own phone, tablet or laptop
>
> --- [reveal.js site](https://revealjs.com/multiplex/)

When `--multiplex` is enabled, the client slides can be found on the `/` path and
the master ones under `/master/`. The master presentation will push its changes
to all the client ones for every transition, is like having a remote control!

For example, your laptop's IP address in the local network is `192.168.100.10`
and you are using the port `3000`, so your audience should see the slides on
`http://192.168.100.10:3000/`, and you should be able to control their slides
through `http://192.168.100.10:3000/master/`.

**NOTE**: Bear in mind multiplex feature will not work as expected when 1) the
presenter computer firewall denies incomig traffic or 2) the local network
does not allow traffic between devices on the port you picked

## See Also

* reveal.js <https://github.com/hakimel/reveal.js/>
* App::revealup <https://github.com/yusukebe/App-revealup>

## Author

Yusuke Wada <http://github.com/yusukebe>
